-: You need to be careful when using Wireshark
to capture packets or frames from a network.
You need to think about how traffic flows through a network
and make sure that you're capturing
in the right part of the network.
So as an example, if PC1 opens up a browser
and connects to the server,
where do you need to capture the traffic?
Now, it's obvious that you may capture here
or may capture here,
but what happens if you capture over here?
Will you see the traffic sent from the client to the server?
Notice we're seeing a whole bunch of traffic here.
We're seeing EIGRP, we're seeing Spanning Tree.
We see other protocols, but let's filter for HTTP.
At the moment, we see no HTTP traffic.
What happens when PC1 opens up a browser to the server?
So I'll close this down and let's open up a browser
and go to 10.1.1.100, so the server.
Do we see any HTTP traffic?
And the answer is no.
If I clear the filters, I'll see a whole bunch of traffic.
So as an example, I can see DNS.
So there's DNS queries.
So let's filter for DNS.
Notice the client 10.1.1.1 sent a DNS query,
you can see query here, to the DNS server.
The source IP address is 10.1.1.1.
Destination is 10.1.1.254.
Now in this topology, the router is acting as a DNS server.
This is a Cisco router.
So show version here shows me
that I'm running Cisco IOS software on this router.
Now if you're not familiar with Cisco,
again, you get free access to my CCNA course.
So that'll teach a whole bunch about Cisco routers
but you don't need to know that to use Wireshark.
But if you want to be a serious network engineer,
I strongly suggest that you learn about Cisco
because Cisco the biggest vendor out there.
But what I've done here, if I type
show run | include dns,
I have set up this router as a DNS server
through this command: ip dns server.
Now, these commands may be confusing,
so let me show you that.
The router is also acting as a DHCP server,
or dynamic host configuration protocol server.
In other words, it's allocating IP addresses
to clients dynamically.
The PCs are not configured with static IP addresses.
They dynamically get IP addresses from the DHCP server.
So this allows me to configure the router as a DHCP server
and this command allows me to create entries
in the DNS server running on this router
that says gns3.com has this IP address.
So as an example, if I ping gns3.com
that resolves to this IP address, domain name server
or domain name system.
DNS allows us to resolve easy to read names to IP addresses.
This GNS3 topology's not connected to the internet.
It's running locally on my computer.
So gns3.com, if you surf from an internet connected device,
will take you to the actual GNS3 server.
But in this example, it's simply taking us
to this server in the topology.
Now what I'll do is stop this Wireshark capture
and I'll save this,
Basic-Wireshark-Capture2.
So you can also, once again,
have a look at this capture if you want to.
But notice here, that the client
is sending a DNS request to the server.
The reason this was captured
is we were capturing traffic on this link,
and the PC is sending a DNS request to the router,
which is the DNS server.
Source MAC address of the PC destination address
is the router.
We can prove that once again by going to the router,
and I can use the command
show interface gigabit 0/0.
Notice the MAC address of this router is this
and that's the destination MAC address of the frame.
So the PC sent a DNS request to the router.
Source IP address is a PC.
Destination IP address is the router.
I can prove that once again by going back to the router.
Remember I typed this command.
There's the MAC address,
there's the IP address of the router,
10.1.1.254.
Source port number is an ephemeral,
or random, or dynamic port number.
Destination port number is a well known port number.
53 is the well-known port number for DNS.
So again, Layer 2 frames,
Layer 3 packets, Layer 4 segments.
In this case, however, it's UDP or user datagram protocol.
It's not TCP.
DNS, in this example, is using UDP.
Source port again, destination port,
to get to Layer 5 to 7.
So top layers of the OSI model.
You can see it's a standard query.
Let's go through that standard query.
So the queries are, in this example for MSN,
so something was happening in the background,
but let's have a look for gns3.com.
But notice Windows just right out the gate
is querying for a whole bunch of stuff,
including bing.com.
So a whole bunch of queries there.
Let's see if we carry on a bunch of Microsoft MSN.
Keep going, a lot of queries, but this is the one I'm after.
Notice gns3.com.
So the Windows PC, in this example,
queried for gns3.com
and the server, hopefully at some point, replies.
Here we go, server reply back to the client.
Notice source port is 53.
Destination port is the ephemeral port used by the client.
Now notice different port numbers
were used for different queries.
So the bing query over here used this source port number
from the client.
I'd have to go back and find the GNS3 query.
There it is.
Notice 55037 is the source port when the query was made.
When the server replies,
it's replying back to that port number
and it tells the client the IP address of the server.
So the router, acting as a DNS server, is telling the client
gns3.com has this IP address: 10.1.1.100.
And then the client can initiate a session to the server.
But we don't see that if we capture traffic on this link.
So again, if I filter for HTTP, I see nothing in the output
because the HTTP traffic is sent directly
from the client to the server.
Why? Because this is a switch.
It's important to remember
that switches do not flood traffic
once they know the MAC addresses involved in a conversation.
So, as an example, if I type show mac address-table
notice we can see the MAC addresses that have been learnt.
The switch has learnt about this MAC address
on gigabit 0/0.
It's also learn about this MAC address,
and it's learnt about this MAC address on gigabit 0/1.
Now when I send traffic from the client,
so that could have timed out,
if I refresh that page,
notice it's learnt about this MAC address on gigabit 0/2.
Once the switch learns
about the MAC addresses in the conversation,
this once again is the server.
And just in case you don't believe me,
notice that this is the MAC address of the server.
This is the HTTP server over here.
Notice this MAC address was learnt on gigabit 0/2.
Once this switch has learnt about the devices
and the conversation, it's not going to flood the frames
out of other ports.
It's going to be switched directly between these two hosts.
So the PC with this MAC address 00-0C, ending in DC-D7,
in other words, this Mac address,
is going to have its traffic forwarded
directly to the server,
and the server traffic is going to go
directly back to the PC.
So if you capture traffic on this link,
you won't see the conversation
between the server and the client.
That's why you need to either span a port or mirror a port
on the switch to be able to see what's going on.
Or you need to have a network tap
or something in the network where you can see the traffic.
You've got to get the traffic to your capturing device,
otherwise you won't see it.
So in the next video, I'll show you how to do that.
Let's add a mirror to the topology
so that we can actually see what's going on.